.\" Copyright (c) 2019 Marc Espie <espie@openbsd.org>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt OPENBSD-WALLPAPER 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm openbsd-wallpaper
.Nd display wallpaper pictures using xwallpaper
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Ar directory
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
uses
.Xr xwallpaper 1
to display background pictures from the
.Sq openbsd-backgrounds
picture collection.
.Pp
.Nm
will query the display geometry using
.Xr xrandr 1 ,
and choose appropriate pictures based
on orientation and aspect-ratio of each monitor of the display.
.Pp
By default,
.Nm
will look into
.Pa ${PREFIX}/share/openbsd-background ,
but another
.Ar directory
can be specified instead.
.Pp
A random picture will be chosen for each monitor of the display,
taken from the
.Pa landscape
or
.Pa portrait
subdirectory depending on the monitor's orientation.
.Pp
If an
.Pa aspect-a:b
file is found matching a monitor aspect ratio, it will be used
as a source of pictures instead.
.Pp
Such a file may hold 3 types of lines:
.Bl -bullet -offset indent
.It
A filename, to be used with
.Xr xwallpaper 1 Ns 's
.Fl -maximize .
.It
A complete invocation of
.Xr xwallpaper 1 .
.It
A
.Sq +directory
line
.El
.Sh AUTHORS
The
.Nm
utility was written by
.An Marc Espie Aq Mt espie@openbsd.org .
